you said no to $20 million oh way more
than that there's sums of money that are
in the hundreds of millions they were
like you sure you want to turn this down
you're in debt for med school I said
it'll come if we stay true to the
science you're one of the most powerful
doctors Dr Mike reacts to lunch Le I
trust his opinion a lot we love Dr Mike
I think the next big trend on YouTube is
the Dr Mike ification on YouTube Every
industry is going to have a Creator
that's going to appeal to the masses
making content online it's all about
creating a wave or writing a wave I got
to ask about the boxing another
hypocritical thing that I do like brain
damage I probably shouldn't be doing
that I think so many YouTubers can get
views but they can't get Fame you've
been on every Big Show how do you pitch
TV producers creating pitches in the
same way that I create titles and
thumbnails for YouTube videos I wish I
had that Playbook when I first started
scientifically what's the best way for
creators to limit burnout you should
factor in two things and I don't say
this often but uh you're very good at
what you
do before we start make sure you
subscribe and ring the bell because we
have so more interviews Studio tours
breakdowns coming up with the world's
biggest YouTubers I mean I can't believe
some of the stuff we filmed and I can't
wait to show it you so hit that button
so you don't miss it and now back to the
video Dr Mike thanks for coming on the
show Mad excited to be here in chat my
favorite thing in the world yeah YouTube
let's do it man well well I have to ask
I mean you spent over a half a million
dollars 10 years of your life you know
studying medicine and now you're onun a
YouTube channel fulltime yeah not
expected trajectory for me as a
immigrant coming coming to the United
States and then being a medical student
never thought I'd end up here but okay
so I'm a year overdue for my checkup so
I called your office fair and I'm like
um can I get an appointment with Dr Mike
and I was like oh my God he still
practices and you still had
availabilities so I have a lot of
questions about how you balance that um
but what does your day look like in
terms of how many days a week do you
spend on YouTube and then uh practicing
and then I have a lot of questions about
the YouTube side that I think you don't
often talk about in interviews yeah so
normally I structure my week in a way
that I have three days in the week to do
YouTube stuff TV stuff speaking
engagements and then three days of the
week to practice medicine I think even
if you're not a doctor even if you're
not in the medical field there's so many
things that you could learn about the
way you run your channel the way you've
grown uh to 10 of millions of followers
across all socials so I want to start
off by just showing some of the formats
after analyzing 30 or 40 videos on your
channel and just ask you to talk about
these different formats which seem to be
the most popular as well as Maybe other
ones and then have some follow-ups in
terms of how you think about it cuz it
was just so well structured when I went
to your channel yeah so when we first
started the channel I had no idea what I
was doing like everyone else and I
didn't know what I'd be passionate about
in fact when we first turned on the
camera uh the videographer I was working
with at the time who now is sort of a
partner with me in the channel said okay
uh Mike just say to camera what you do
for a living to get that like two
sentences out was the most painful
experience of my life I I could not talk
to camera
it wasn't natural to me and it it felt
forced for the first 30 40 videos um and
we just said let's be creative let's
talk about the issues that my patients
have in the office but let's have it
reach a wider audience and as time went
on we started finding new avenues of
making that message work because at the
end of the day what happens with most
creators in the healthcare media space
they start off with a good message but
then they run out of content and they
start corrup in the medical information
so they start promising you Miracle
Solutions supplements here's the one
thing you don't know or like the last
season of the Dr O show was how your
zodiac sign impacts your heart health
right because they got to create Buzz
they got to their version of
still talking about the same few things
that I was talking about last year the
year before but it just packaged in a
way that is so entertaining and
watchable so take me through some of
these formats yeah so obviously react
format has always been big on YouTube uh
initially I had a lot of push back to
doing a react format I remember people
in the comments were like hey you should
watch gry's anatomy and because I was
someone who never watched Grace's
Anatomy it always made me mad so why
would I watch that that's it's
inaccurate I'd be fueling more
misinformation and then I had um a med
student rotating with me who basically
spent a month learning what it's like to
make content online for healthcare and
he said you got to do this you got to do
this so I said okay in one of my videos
let's create a call to action that if
this video gets a set number of likes
I'll do a reaction video and lo and
behold it got way over the amount needed
and I did my first Gray's Anatomy video
and it exploded like absolutely exploded
the channel complet changed trajectories
actually like a month before that I got
fired by my MCN because they viewed me
as a failure in launching your multi
Channel network where your YouTube
channel was housed under exactly they
fired you wow they fired me they said
you know you're not well I turned on a
few sponsors that they thought they
could make money from but for me as a
doctor I'm not going to Pedal BS and if
I don't stand by something like they
offered me some clothing company that I
would never wear and I'm not going to
push that to my audience unless I
believed in it so they were unhappy on
that end I wasn't getting multi-million
views as they hoped I would a year in
and they said we want to part ways a
month later we do the gry anatomy video
Everything changes so then right away
we're like all right we got to respond
let's put out another react video so we
did another show and then another show
and we were just trending those months
number one number two number three for
such a long period of time and
ultimately that went away because people
like kind of grow old of the content and
the novelty Fades so we said okay now we
have to move into a different type of
reaction and we knew memes were popular
and I would always send my friends in
the hospital medical memes so I said
let's do the meme reactions then we
graduated to Tik Tok reactions and we're
constantly trying to innovate ways that
we can use known formats the things
that's relatable to the non-r which is
the dense science info so we try and
package those two together and as we go
down this list people love buying
products but a lot of the products lie
so we have a product review series which
do really well with thumbnailing so a
lot of times when we're thinking about a
concept it's not just the value of the
subject how much it needs to be talked
about it also is how well can we title
and thumbnail this uh how much does the
audience want to watch a full length
video on it some subjects are only 60
seconds worth which is great now for
shorts um and then we went into this new
Truth or Scare model where we can move
into more scripting where we can do
things ahead of time bulk film taking
some of the pressure off me because I've
been largely coming up with the medical
side of the content on my own for the
entire time so 90 plus perc of the
videos are in my medical mind of how I
want the audience to understand it and
that takes up a lot of time yeah so with
these Truth or Scare uh ideas basically
we can get a really good quality
researcher come in give me the facts
allow me to now repackage the script
into a way that's relatable to the
audience and from there we're getting
some good info out but being able to
bulk film a couple of episodes back to
back to back and maybe um Mike can I
call you Mike or is it Dr M no please
Mike okay um Mike when you're doing like
Truth or Scare an episode so we have
context for the audience was the one
where you're like are airpods bad for
your brain right like the so we'll
always start a Truth or Scare episode in
the same way where there's a claim being
made in that episode and the claim for
the airpod episode was are airpods
dangerous to your health or the claim is
actually that airpods are dangerous to
your health and they can increase rates
of all sorts of diseases and then we go
through the episode present the data
both ways and at the end I give my final
Takeaway on the Truth or Scare meter
where it falls and um you know for each
episode you get a lot of really good
info in a really short period of time
because these are Buzzy topics that
people are searching for so you get
great search traffic you also get uh
great seasonal traffic if something
takes off people are searching airpods
people are searching sunblock in the
summer you kind of get uh the the
seasonality out of it but at the same
time Evergreen Concepts as well so uh
really like that series coming together
it's new we're still developing it but
really cool stuff and it's really
inspiring to hear that even someone with
as much expertise as you like will seek
out other experts oh for sure put
information together like research so
you could increase your content while
not decreasing your quality yeah I mean
it just at the end of the day you could
only do so much as one person you need
to expand the team you need to be able
to delegate to have a successful channel
that continues to grow it's totally
feasible for a year two three maybe to
grow completely doing things on your own
but after a while whether it's burnout
mental health anguish full-on
productivity dumps or um writer block
that it becomes really hard to come up
with content but if you could take
certain things off your plate whether
it's editing filming thumbnail
generation that takes a lot of the
weight off and allows you to be your
most creative self so look can I sit and
spend five hours researching the science
behind airpods sure but I could also
hire an mdphd to do the same present me
that information I'll still fact check
it and make sure it's accurate but I'll
at least have all the sources there
ready to go and I know I'm putting out
accurate content what's the most amount
of episodes you've ever filmed in a day
maybe three or four three or four that's
that's pretty impressive with how dense
the information is sure I mean it makes
it easier when some of them are react
content but even react content I'm
watching the content genuinely for the
first time oh you are yeah yeah so I
know there's a lot of expert react
channels where they plan what they're
going to say sometimes it's even
scripted but for me I wanted to be as
genuine as
possible now given the fact that a lot
of the episodes have some weird
conditions sometimes I'll get oh there's
three topics here that you should be
aware of that will pop up so I'll do
some preliminary research about those
topics but in general it's my first time
watching the episode giving my answers
right there on screen so it feels like
you're watching along with me because
that's the reality and I have to ask
about that because again react format is
such a big thing across YouTube and I
think if you're listening or watching
this and you're like I'm not in the
medical field but I want to try react
from my field what are some of the
things that you tell your team like hey
um look for these kind of Clips before
you bring it to me or you would tell
other YouTubers like if you're trying to
react format here's some of the things
to look out for that make for a good
clip you need
obviously the shows or episode or
whatever you're reacting to to be
valuable to the audience it needs to
already be something that people search
for um like doing the first episode of
gry anatomy was a no-brainer rather than
doing some random episode on season 2 so
we take something that is already welln
and we pair it with the UN known and I
happen to be the unknown in that example
so when you're thinking about making
content take something that is really
wellknown that you're reacting to and
then pair it with yourself which is
usually the unknown when you get big
enough to be known then you could
actually take things that are unknown
and pair it with your content and break
uh news so whenever I'm discussing um
making content online or news it's all
about creating a wave or writing a wave
so for example Grace's Anatomy no one
knows who I I am everyone knows what gry
Anatomy is in that situation I'm writing
a wave I'm writing a wave of GRA gry
anatomy and I'm adding my value to it
for my perspective as a practicing
doctor but then if there's a a bad
doctor that I'm seeing that's doing some
damage I'm like all right now I'm going
to create the wave I'm going to take an
op-ed perspective and actually introduce
my audience to this topic and explain to
them what's going on but that could only
be done when you already have somewhat
of a following it's so well said CU I
feel like so many people start and try
to create a wave yeah but you got to get
there I mean it's to me now the
algorithm is set in such a way where you
can experiment at your own will yeah uh
you know if you do creating a wave
really well on the right Topic at the
right time the algorithm will find you
whether you have one sub or one million
Subs so that's something truly special
about it and now with some of the new
features like hype coming out you're
going to have even better support in
trying to make things blow up and uh I'm
excited to see how all that shapes out
plays out for sure is there a way if
you're riding the wave to measure how
big it is like sometimes I use Google
Trends and be like if I'm going to react
to something or if there's somebody that
you know I would love to have on the
show and make sure it's like a like a
good fit like checking out their views
or like are there things that you look
at or is it just an instin I think when
I first started we were doing things
like looking at ranker or looking at
Google Trends and looking at these
objective data sources to be honest as
time has gone on I found that to be less
useful and more so leaning towards
Instinct and just general sense of
things like if you say this topic to
someone what will they say well they
know what it is if you ask a person this
person's name will they know who they
are and I use that kind of as my
barometer more so than an objective
Source makes sense uh for the past few
years on YouTube there's been this huge
trend of the Mr beatification of YouTube
you know people trying to do more
spectacle challenge formats but I I'm
not kidding you I've gone on podcasts
and I've said I think the next big trend
on YouTube is the do mik ification on
YouTube okay I and what I mean by that
is I think every industry is going to
have a Creator that's going to be
talking about the field in a way that's
going to appeal to the masses if you
look at Dentistry you have dental digest
if you look at law you have legal eagle
if you look at chemistry you have n red
I'm wondering what do you think about
that and do you believe that every
industry is going to have somebody who's
going to be a Creator and is going to
break out no matter how unsexy that
industry is yeah I think that's
absolutely true and I think that's the
big talking point I actually tell kids
these days when they're ped they say
their number one dream job is to be a
YouTuber and I have to redirect them in
that hope and say hey learn something
bring some value to YouTube otherwise
you probably won't get popular number
one because you won't have anything
really interesting to talk about but
even worse you might get popular and
they're like wait why is it worse if I
get popular well then you'll get popular
you're probably going to be popular for
a short period of time and at some point
it'll fall fall off and then you're
going to feel terrible about yourself
and you won't have a career not to
necessarily fall back on but to say well
I've learned this this is where my value
is they'll say a negative comment will
come in and say you have no value and
they say something really mean but then
if you look inside and you say well what
is my value what am I bringing to the
table that's going to be a demon that
you're really going to struggle with
yeah I think you need two things you
need experience and then entertainment
value sure um and it's easier to make
experience or or like knowledge
entertaining than just to be a pure
Entertainer yeah and even to be
Entertainer like do the rounds like you
want to be a funny comedian do standup
comedy do do the leg work be performing
at shows bomb a lot learn what that's
like you could tell the difference from
someone who's had those Reps versus
someone who has it when they step away
from that camera have you tried doing
that um well with the live show doing it
full improv that's that was the hardest
thing I've ever done more so than boxing
because on improv it's if you don't come
up with anything you're just Frozen and
in medical school you get no training of
thinking on the spot you're kind of in
instead just always reverting back to
what you know the knowledge knowledge
knowledge but here you're accepting the
reality as it is and just keep building
on it keep building on it and that was
one of the best tools that I think made
me better as a podcast host as a doctor
and in fact I think medical schools
should incorporate impov training into
their education why because I think when
you're sitting one-on-one with somebody
part of understanding who they are is
accepting the information they're giving
you and a lot of times as doctors we're
quick to write people off or just skim
over whatever story they're telling but
with improv you have to be in the moment
you have to be locked in you have to say
yes and and when a patient's telling me
something that might not even be
factually accurate I have to say yes and
I want to help you the best that I can
yes and I want to help your child the
best way that I can and when we start
creating commonalities we can then talk
about things we disagree in a friendly
way as opposed to an argumentative
antagonistic way yeah when was that oh
moment for you where you practicing
and then you're like okay maybe I'm
going to dial back like how much like I
practice in the field I'm going to do
more YouTube or like there must have
been a moment I imagine where it's like
okay this YouTube thing is taking off as
a business uh let me try to invest there
versus the traditional path that you
studied for yeah my passion for being a
doctor will never go away it's it's just
the thing that I enjoy doing most and
YouTube's awesome because there's so
much value there forgetting the
financial side of things the value of
helping so many people healthwise also
you know I I do a lot of Education as a
primary care doctor in my office but
imagine doing it at a such a larger
scale on YouTube there's so much benefit
to be had but the moment where I
realized that that was as valuable as it
is to me was when I finished my
residency I already had my YouTube
channel up and running and there was a
period of time that I was going to work
in New York and I got my license to
practice in New York and suddenly my
hospital where I did my residency
training said what about continuing to
work here we'd love to hire you and I
had to apply to a New Jersey for a New
Jersey license which took 3 four months
and there was that Gap where I didn't
practice but I made YouTube videos boy
did it feel unauthentic and not genuine
and I lost connection to the field in
that 3 months and I said no I can't give
up practicing clinical medicine because
it makes me understand better the
problems people have it allows me to
relate better to people use better
language where I can actually see
one-on-one if they're understanding what
I'm saying and it just makes you just
more valuable but also happier even when
the Channel's not performing as well as
you hope going to the office and having
someone tell you your notes are late or
your patient mad that you're 5 minutes
late to their appointment that's
valuable and I people will always
belittle it so valuable being able to
see the exact outcome of your work right
there in the moment so so valuable wow
yeah I think there's something to be
said about keeping your razor sharp you
know I I interviewed um Hayden hiler
Smith who's one of the best editors on
YouTube he still edits while he makes
YouTube content of course so you're
practicing the craft was there a moment
where like I like I have so much respect
for doctors CU like you invest so much
of your time as well as your finances
into it that you're like wait the
finances of YouTube are taking off more
than being a doctor yeah and I don't say
this often but uh I've because of the
YouTube success I now volunteer as a
doctor oh wow so that's just like I by
law I have to get paid so I don't donate
the money back to my Hospital which is a
nonprofit and I work at a community
health center so taking a different line
than most media doctors who use the
moment to build up a business of
clientele of celebrities or private pay
I said well let's do really well in the
YouTube space and use that to fund being
an awesome doctor for people who are
really needing it and that value I I
can't understate or overstate how
valuable it is it's just it's so
powerful to help someone who has a true
problem versus the value I would get
from having someone who says I'm strong
but I want to be you know 100x strong
give me the best supplement formula what
have you so helping people who are in
need is just intrinsic to me I even
remember in 2015 when I had my little
viral moment of popularity for The
Superficial stuff yeah I right away my
first thought was okay how do I do
something meaningful with this and I did
like a date for charity and this was for
everyone I wasn't going to bring up but
the context is like you were named
sexiest doctor alive yeah yeah I like
that was a more superficial story that I
want to get but yeah you you but that's
how it started and you know it's funny
people still like lean on it and I'm
like that was 10 years ago it's funny
I'm Pro I'm like I've aged out of it so
that's not me but it's a funny uh
tagline that even I'll save someone's
life on an airplane that happened uh
flying over the Atlantic Ocean and uh
there was no EpiPen on board so I
macgyvered one and we saved this young
gentleman's life and it was an epic
story and coming back from it I'm like
oh New York Times is going to want to
write about planes not having epipens on
board and it was New York Post who was
like Instagram sexiest doctor live saves
life on plan I'm like all right so
clearly they're just about the clicks
and not the value so wow is there was
there a moment when you're were like
taking off that your colleagues and
peers looked at you differently because
I also the number one thing I also hear
is when people are in a profession
they're starting to create content they
start getting looks yeah it's like wait
what like you have a day job like why
why are you creating content like were
were you feeling that what do you advice
do you have for people who may be going
through something like that but why to
do the content thing in addition to the
professional thing we'll get right back
to the video but first I want to tell
you about a Creator tool that I love
using and that's Opus clip who sponsored
this video you've probably heard of
their AI clipping tool that so many
creators are using to turn their long
form into shorts with captions title and
Boll but I'm excited to show you the
next phase of what they're working on
after working with them for over a year
on this while before Opus would clip the
best moments for you their new clip
anything feature actually watches your
entire video and lets you prompt their
AI to pick the the moments and topics
that you want clipped and from there
Opus pretty much handles the rest it'll
edit the clip it'll add subtitles
generate b-roll and even give you new
ideas for titles all you have to do is
go to this link and then drop in your
video link select the genre prompt the
AI for the moments that you love you'll
get the clips and you can start posting
I know a lot of people have used Opus
clip but you're going to love this new
update and if you haven't tried it yet
then now is the perfect time it's helps
creators of all sizes hit millions of
views with just a few minutes of effort
by repurposing their existing content so
check out the link below to do the same
and learn what those creators have
posted to get millions of views to
revamp your short strategy today and
again it's totally free to get started
with just your email all right now back
to the video advice I don't necessarily
have perfect advice because I feel like
everyone's going to have an individual
Journey here what I experienced was the
first couple of years of my residency
when I really got to know the staff I
was working with the nurses the CMAs the
other
doctors they knew me for me they didn't
know that I had social media at the time
because it wasn't popular and then when
it exploded
everyone got really nervous especially
the higher up Executives of oh what is
this going to mean for us we're not a
huge hospital system that can handle
this type of risk and all this stuff so
they were very worried but I reassured
them that I'm only doing this to get
good medical info out there and if
someone invites me on a talk show as the
sexiest doctor I'll allow that and I'll
go and go along with it but I'm really
going to move the conversation to
something valuable because that was
always my passion and why I never wanted
to stray away and because I've stayed in
the same hospital system actually it's
my 10 year anniversary with them um this
summer thank you so uh they know me they
know me from before the popularity and
I've grown with them and they've seen
how it changed and they've seen the
struggles that I've had when you can do
that with a family it's just absolutely
amazing it's rare these days because
most people are moving around and
shifting within their careers I've been
blessed to be part of this uh Overlook
Family Medicine family and it just been
a awesome experience actually one of my
last podcast guests this year um was a
nurse that I worked with for my full 10
years that um just retired after like 50
years of service to the hospital system
and the conclusion to her career was she
had debilitating pain and she was going
to these surgeons and they were
scheduling her for surgery and I asked
her to see me and it was awkward for her
to come see me is the young doctor that
she almost raised she always considered
herself my work Mom and then she came in
to see me finally cuz she was having
this debilitating pain at that moment
she wasn't walking for like six months
already and upon examining her and
actually doing the work that most
doctors these days are skipping over I
found out it wasn't her back that was
the problem it was her hip and I didn't
do anything magical I just found that
the problem was coming from a different
source and I just saw her the other day
and we talked about on the podcast her
pain is completely gone she avoided
surgery she was getting like a spinal
cord stimulator placed and we cancel
that surgery because of that physical
exam and to be able to give that back to
someone who basically raised you in the
healthcare field was just super special
and cool to do on YouTube that's
incredible um have you gotten ideas for
videos to educate the masses on your
YouTube channel from the clients that
you see on a day-to-day basis for sure I
think it's
a symbiotic relationship that is
unexpected most people say well like
being a doctor and doing social media
how can those possibly go hand inand
well when I'm making a YouTube video on
a topic that's obscure or that I'm not
well versed in I have to do a lot of
research well that helps me with my
patience because I become a better
doctor but then when I go and I talk to
my patients I understand what questions
I need to answer I need to know what
words I need to use to answer that
question then I could bring that to
YouTube makes me a better YouTuber so I
think living in these two distinct
worlds actually creates a really healthy
value that I can bring to the general
audience both ways I I mean that's why
I'm I'm such a big believer in this dror
mic ification of YouTube I I'm going to
keep going with this cuz cuz honestly
it's like you are doing the work you're
you've you've educated yourself for it
and then you're almost like having a
daily like focus group to get ideas to
be like okay I'm going to sharpen this
I'm going to you know while giving the
value and then if you make a video about
it it's been field tested and then the
stories that you get from your
day-to-day experiences whether it's
prescribing a medicine and it's it's not
covered and the insurance company's
problematic and now you have a toolbox
to reach lawmakers like uh when the
EpiPen situation happened I made a
YouTube video about it and uh Chuck
Schumer's office calls who's the Senate
Majority Leader now and says would you
like to stand with the senator and call
for epip pens on planes yeah let's do it
that would never happen if there was uh
a bullhorn of YouTube at my disposal or
immediately after that I said well
there's not enough Prime AR care doctors
now Chuck Schumer's most watched
Instagram real on his social media is
ours talking about the need for more
doctors and how we included in the
latest bill that he passed so there's so
much value to having a social media
platform as a professional not just
creating content another form of
monetization but impacting your field
impacting the people who use your
field like the Public Service of it all
is so valuable yeah I mean I think
there's argument you made like you're
using so much of your power for good but
you're one of the most powerful doctors
like in the world with this platform
that you have and you built and the way
you're using is so inspiring I'm hoping
that someone can look at my story and
say oh I could do this 10 times better
and they do it way better because what
I've seen especially with social media
these days is Young doctor gets a little
bit of popularity and right away starts
doing advertisements for sub Miracle Cur
all product or they come up with their
own Miracle Cur all product and if they
just waited a little bit longer and they
held out and they stay true there would
be so much more success so much more
value I'm not even talking about
financial Financial will be there too we
do really great on the YouTube channel
but the value that you could bring to
the community as a whole is just so
undervalued and I feel like people think
short term so often and I'm really
encouraging them push it wait for that
uh marshmallow test of delayed
gratification and that's exactly what I
want to ask about like those early days
you're having your moments of Fame uh
what are some of those brand deals or
sponsors that came to you they like no
way like that's going to be like a we
turn down 99% of sponsors that come our
way because they see doctor popular they
don't really understand what I talk
about so let's create a formula line for
you we'll give you $20 million up front
to invest in it like these are real sums
of money that people are offering you um
you said know to $20 million oh way more
than that I mean there's there's sums of
money that are in the hundreds of
millions over you know 5 to 10 years or
whatever the length of the brand deal is
but it just that's not why we started
this and I'd rather earn less when I say
less it's still great money like I grew
up broke on welfare so this is all a net
win um and even it goes into the TV side
of things I was offered to take over
hosting for a nationwide television show
syndicated across the whole ation and I
was ready I was going to be the sole
host of the health program so excited
all the meetings were done the schedule
was cleared with my hospital for filming
like it was ready to go a week before
filming they send me the contract and
there's one word in the contract that
said instead of having like full review
of sponsors I get reasonable review and
what the lawyer essentially explained to
me was that given the fact that there
was two execs and me I could be over
ruled whereas before we all had to
unanimously agree and I said well I'm
not comfortable with that let's change
it they said no we won't change it I
said well give me some examples of
sponsors you imagine for the program and
they said some vitamin or supplement is
like one of the sponsors and I said you
want me to say this that everyone needs
this most people don't need this and I
realized like there's no way I could do
this show even though it was a seven
figure sum multiple years and Nationwide
attention and your show they said you
could run it as is they even backtracked
and said you don't have to read the ads
for the product we'll bring in a new
doctor to just read the ads I'm like but
it's my show so you have to just stand
on on the truth and say what you stand
for because otherwise even if you
succeed you won't be happy with your
success and all that really matters is
what happens when your head hits the
pillow were there any other
opportunities that you considered and
you're like CU it's tempting like I mean
especially when you're trying to make it
like you're balancing so much you're
working hard like was there anything
that you're like you almost I'll give
you one from two weeks ago um I hope I
don't exactly call them out so it's a
combination product of a toothbrush plus
another product within it so maybe
that'll hide it as well and I said oh
this sounds like a great concept I'm
like totally in so our teams are working
together to do it and I said well send
me the product I want to use it before
we finalize so I used it for two weeks
and I realized it was a pretty mediocre
toothbrush and a pretty mediocre
secondary feature
so it didn't do anything well and I
didn't feel comfortable recommending it
to my audience it was a huge deal huge
financial deal and technically it's not
a bad product it wouldn't cause any harm
but I just don't want my audience buying
junk I want that like we've done um
sponsorship deals for a hair dryer I use
that hair dryer still like to come on
this show like I love those products and
if I'm recommending them it's because I
truly use them so I I have no fear in
turning those down and not because I'm
successful I had that lack of fear even
when we first started like with my
agency they were initially like you sure
you want to turn this down you're in
debt for med school and this is this
will change your life I said it'll come
and I was just dead set that this would
change if we stay true to the science
and I think we've proven that to be the
case and I hope young doctors listen and
young experts listen that you don't have
to sell out to be financially successful
I mean to have that conviction that
early cuz when you were in Deb like you
probably hard-headed
more than anything um when did you make
your first hire as a as a Creator um
when I was doing uh
Instagram I knew I wanted a transition
to YouTube because I was being held out
from television by The Gatekeepers of
Hollywood so when I first got my little
viral moment of Fame I had a really
rough realization of what 15 minutes of
fame was MH everyone called when my
story broke on BuzzFeed yeah Ellen
degenerous Steve Harvey everyone's
calling and they're like we need to have
you on our show but you can't do anyone
else's show and at that time Ellen
degenerous was the biggest show and I
said okay I'll do that one yeah they
want the exclusive they want the
exclusive so we do the pre-interviews
all the stuff and it was actually
filming in New York it was a rare
opportunity on Labor Day and day before
the show they call and they say bad news
Hillary Clinton is announcing her run
for presidency and she's doing our talk
show as the only show so the other
guests are like pink and Jimmy Kimmel so
you're beat and I'm like oh no worries
I'll call Steve Harvey back so I call
Steve Harvey back they're like your old
news that was two weeks ago we don't
care and then I realized that it's going
to be hard to maintain that audience and
I still got some invitations to do shows
and they were great but it was always
under the notion of sexy doctor even
though I want to talk about prevention
and myth busting and all these things so
as time went on I realized I need a new
platform because these invitations were
becoming more and more sparse and I said
I got to do it on YouTube and I recorded
my very first YouTube video on my webcam
and it was terrible it was the worst
thing ever I actually played it on Phil
def Franco podcast uh for him because I
had a clip of it on my computer it was
just so bad I was talking about a
research study about exercise and it was
terrible and at that moment I realized I
needed to make a higher so I said as
soon as I find someone who's good
quality with video editing I'm going to
hire them and someone reached out uh guy
named Dan Owens who's now a partner in
the channel and said hey I do stuff uh
for YouTube and I think you'd benefit
from having video content we met we
clicked we started working on a
part-time basis that extended to now you
know seven years later he's partnered in
the channel we continue to grow his uh
wife is a member of the YouTube channel
now as well so we're always trying to
take care of our own and
make sure that when I succeed or the
channel succeeds everyone succeeds
that's so interesting to hear because I
think a lot of people who are creators
are looking for a partners and operator
yeah um but it's hard to incentivize I'm
giving how hard it is to work um what
does partner mean in the channel because
also like you know channels like
creators we don't often have exits or
liquidity events you know there's a few
like the map hats of the world but sure
and again I was starting this as a broke
medical student not really knowing what
I was doing but essentially my goal was
to say everyone should have a really
good salary working here because we do
really well but then on top of it not
only should there be a bonus structure
but after a certain period of time that
bonus structure should reflect on how
well the Channel's doing so we created
performance incentives that if the
Channel's doing something your salary is
going to reflect that and not just
thinking about salaries because that's
one part of it the health insurance
every employee has is the best health
insurance um the food that everyone eats
is always top food so travel if I'm
traveling somewhere and I'm traveling
first class everyone in the crew is
flying first class most people are not
doing that but I was like we're all a
team and we're all doing this together
so we all should celebrate in the wins
what What's um some of those bonus
structures for creators thinking about
incentivizing their either percentages
of total revenue or specific parts of
the revenue because we have different
revenue streams whether it's AdSense uh
uh brand deals speaking engagements now
we have the course that we're selling um
and because we have these different
Avenues there's different incentives
depending on which team you're on what
is the pie chart of income look like now
like rough
percentages I would say it's the the
heavy portion of it let's say 90% is
split between brand deals and AdSense
Revenue um and they'll teeter totter
depending on the year um and then speaky
engagements is the next big percentage
Point um and then the course is probably
the small small um because it's the
newest and probably where I put less
focus on but I just want to have a
product out there to encourage people
who want to be experts and Tackle media
not just social media What's um monthly
overhead to run your channel it's a good
question
um if I had to factor
everything it's
probably $100,000
$200,000 a month yeah oh wow what's like
Revenue uh revenue is climbing into the
eight figur sphere eight figures yeah oh
my god wow yeah and that's again turning
down 99% of I mean you deserve it man
all the stuff you said no to and the
long-term thinking and the good you're
doing that's do you do you have an
estimate of like what the Dr Mike brand
is worth
today I don't think it's worth anything
because you can't really sell it right
like I'm the brand kind of so if I'm not
in the videos it's not worth anything
and uh you know I've discussed and I've
seen how influencers create products and
they do really well and some of them are
just no-brainers like if you're a
channel that talks about nail polish you
got to launch a nail polish product if
you're a channel that does food reviews
or cooking you got to create a food
product right like that just makes
absolute sense it's where your passion
is Health it's not as easy to do that
unless I'm a genius that can truly
create some Innovative Miracle product
I'm probably going to be white labeling
some BS supplement and I don't want to
do that and I've stayed away from that
from a brand deal perspective much in
the same way I would stay away from it
me creating one H how big is the team
today in terms of people um we probably
have four or five full-time folks and
probably the same um independent
contractors whether it's animators
editors now we're trying to enter this
world of dubbing which is so complicated
oh man especially medically because it's
not just a joke that I want translated
well it has to be medically accurate and
culturally
sensitive so that's really tough and you
have to find medical experts who speak
the language who get YouTube who get
this concept and then get a voice and
multiple voices especially for the
reaction videos because now you're
translating multiple soundtracks right
right yeah so very tricky yeah yeah yeah
dubbing is I feel like it's yeah one of
those areas we're trying to focus on but
AI definitely um helps yeah I'm hoping
AI can solve this you know I've actually
been really disappointed in AI really
well scratch that I've been very
disappointed with how people talk about
AI versus what the reality is but tell
me
more you have people who are very
excited about Ai and probably use it to
some degree in their everyday lives in a
cool way that I'm unaware of but in
healthcare we always say AI is taking
over the most AI feature I have
available to me is I can search the word
colon oscopy in the chart and it'll find
the colonoscopy report for me that's as
cool as AI as I have um so maybe there's
some AI in Radiology where it's helping
read scans or something like that but
it's very far and few between right now
and in the same way that people are
saying oh it's going to take over the
world it's going to be exponential I
actually had that argument with Dr Mike
isrel PhD um about AI because he's a
firm believer that AI is going to solve
all our problems in healthcare
it's going to make medications that will
never feel sad or depressed in any way
and it'll just make us more optimal more
optimal and I am less optimistic that it
will do that or I guess I'm more
realistic that it probably won't do that
yeah yeah I think it's going to be
fascinating to see how it plays out I
mean you've been on every Big Show on TV
how do you pitch TV producers well
initially when I was doing it I was
focusing on creating the relationships
with the network producers that have
hired me in the past and then creating
pitches in the same way that I create
titles and thumbnails for YouTube videos
so when you're creating a title and
thumbnail and a concept you're trying to
create it for what the audience that you
think on YouTube wants and what that
producer wants for their show will
probably not be the same that your
YouTube audience wants just like how if
you're creating content for YouTube that
content oneto one probably won't work on
Snapchat or on Facebook not without some
tweaking at the very least so I started
thinking about ways to incorporate if
I'm doing a video can I write an oped at
the same time and submit that for
publication like during covid we did
this quite frequently where I wrote an
oped for the daily news about the
vaccine did a vaccine video on YouTube
did some press appearances surrounding
my oped and the vaccine video and it
sort of created a 360 environment where
I'm hitting all aspects of media as
opposed to just YouTube YouTube or
social media how do you find the contact
information of the TV producer LinkedIn
LinkedIn LinkedIn is is a powerful
Source but for me I was lucky that
initially I had some opportunities and I
already had some existing contacts and
then I leaned on those but there's
always networking opportunities with
people in your field I met some of my
best friends in the space going to
Medical media events and just talking to
folks and seeing what's available um
whenever a reporter writes an article
they leave their email at the bottom
email them talk to them pitch some Pitch
an idea and then TV show producers are
constantly scouring the web for articles
and if your name pops up frequently
they're just going to reach out to you
so it's not only about uh reaching out
but also having a healthy inbound as
well yeah because I think so many
YouTubers can get views but they can't
get Fame and I feel like finding that
and like those things or maybe Fame
isn't the right word it's like things
that could like strengthen their brand
yeah influence influence more of a way
um to double click on that like let's
say you find the produc contact
information on LinkedIn or you get it at
an event what are you sending in that
email I would right away send the pitch
of an idea that you think works well and
then they just become familiar with the
fact that you're sending pitches and
once you send enough pitches and they
see you familiar like it becomes a level
of familiarity where they're seeing your
name constantly pop up with really good
ideas because they they just might act
like they know you I've had that happen
where I've sent pictures to a specific
producer and then when we meet oh yeah
we met I'm like no no we've never met
I've just pitched you a bunch and I
guess like you've watched my content and
as a result so even if you don't get
picked up your opportunity and being in
the back of a producer's mind is
valuable and are you like hey dear so
and so like hope all as well here's a
idea for a segment okay cut hope BS well
cut to the chase um uh like prw of the
email body of the email to right away be
in the first line like the idea IDE so
it's very clear yeah like if you're
doing back to school lunches being
unhealthy back to school lunches on like
why back to like you're again creating a
title and thumbnail so you want to hook
the producer just like you're hooking
the YouTube viewer and maybe you're even
putting in the subject line for sure
you're definitely putting in the subject
line and then you're giving like a few
bullets of explanation exactly and you
say if you want to learn more reach back
out reach back out yeah let's have a
combo about it wow and you know because
of that I was a recurring guest on Live
with Kelly and Ryan Good Morning America
Rachel Ray like all the big talk shows
when I was doing it frequently now the
YouTube channel Rivals a lot of those
shows viewerships so I have to do that
less but uh also explaining to folks
that people are like oh I'm going to
hire a PR Company and they think they're
going to become famous because they have
a PR Company explain to them what a PR
Company actually does do they need it
should they be spending the money and
they can expect I wish I had that
Playbook when I first started I spent so
much money on things that I didn't need
where I realized if someone just gave me
some guidance I could save $50,000 right
off the bat just by knowing where I
should invest and where I shouldn't wow
so do you do all your own publicity
inhouse yeah no PR firm no I mean
initially when I first started I did and
I spent money that shouldn't have been
spent well I didn't know right so like
you're coming up as a a young res
you're like TV like media like it's
imaginary thing so you think oh there's
no like how do I reach them so you think
oh I'll hire someone I'll pay them X
number of thousands of dollars a month
and they will tell them about me and
they'll want me and a lot of times if
you didn't have a project if you didn't
have a product a book something to pitch
the producers weren't interested like
the like I said oh we hit a million
views uh a million Subs on YouTube
they'll surely want to interview US for
that they didn't care that's their
competition they don't want to promote
your YouTube stuff they want to promote
their own show so they want exclusives
so I would say oh I have a really good
YouTube video coming coming out they say
well it's too late because your YouTube
video is going to come out people are
going to see it they're not going to
come watch our show so then I realized I
had to change timing around but you
could only learn this if you had that
experience and that's what I try and
teach in my course all the things that I
wish I would have done when I first
started how do you change the timing
around now let's say you're working on a
YouTube video and like the way you talk
about having a 360 approach it's
fascinating like how do you squeeze as
much juice out of it it depends what
we're talking about so maybe an example
of like a recent one that you did a 360
approach for um honestly Co was the best
examples of that when I'm putting out a
video that I know is going to get
traction because so many people are
asking questions about vaccinations I
will preliminary pitch producers about a
topic give them the time when the
video's coming out say I will tease my
video coming out on your show still get
like some kind of value before mine
comes out and then I'll also get an
extra added value to my show and that
led to Opportunities like standing on
the White House lawn reporting to Fox
News and arguing them with them about
whether or not fouchi is doing the right
thing I had no idea that I would have an
opportunity to do that but last second
their producers like like oh we like
your pitch where are you and I happened
to be interviewing the Surgeon General
that day at the White House I said I
can't do it I'm at the White House they
said oh we have cameras at the White
House just go to the lawn I'm like oh I
don't have a press credential they're
like don't worry we already page
security they're expecting you so so I
walk out on the front lawn and here I am
doing an interview um and you know
something I again I never expected to
have happen but it was only made
possible by YouTube and also like
thinking about okay like the video takes
so much work but that script can be a
written piece exactly or you like
knowing your talking points that could
be you appearing somewhere else also
maybe a speaking event and newsletters
like I'm trying to lean into that now in
the in the coming months if I'm being
honest because it takes time but that
that has been largely underutilized
there's been so many things that have
been underutilized with the amount of
work that we've done where we could have
repackaged things 10 different ways and
put it in a more 360 approach that I
wish I did but because I was learning
and just trying to deal with the demand
of everything going on because I'm still
practicing I'm still Fielding calls for
my patients that you can do everything
and you have to be okay with that do you
have any thoughts about the newsletter
as you approach that well figuring out a
way that people would actually get value
again the advice that I'm giving isn't
usually
revolutionary so I'm not the type of
doctor that's going to say something
like the correct ice bath protocol is 3
minutes and 13 seconds and you need to
do it like this and this many times a
day in order to get the best benefit
that will get clicks because people are
going to back what is the best protocol
I don't talk that way that's not how I
communicate so it's harder to create a
buzzy newsletter that will get good
openings so we're trying to figure out a
good uh sequence of how often they
should come out where we'll definitely
have value but still not have to corrupt
the medical information in the process
yeah and also like I find repurposing is
so tricky cuz we just launched our
newsletter a few months ago and we're
like okay like we don't want just want
to put the interviews in there we're
going to have a thumbnail Roundup of the
best thumbnails on YouTube y some kind
value something always about added value
always and how do you think about like
the creative rapper like the packaging
of it because I I thought this was
really genius what you did I pulled up a
short um and I feel like I learned a ton
of medical information from this
um this is a video that came out after
Mark Rober was on hot ones okay yeah no
no no no no no no no never do this
literally never do what Mark Rober is
doing in this clip this is throat
numbing spray like if you have a sore
throat he was recently on hot ones and
in order to avoid tasting the spiciness
he used the throat numbing spray over
and over again I feel bad that Mark
Rober had to be the target of this
because he's an awesome guy and
obviously shares the best information on
the web when it comes to Science and
Tech so um Mark Rober went on hot ones
he used a throat numbing spray in in
order to try and trick his body from
feeling the spiciness which by the way a
lot of us use when we're sick you know
when we have a sore throat so
immediately I was like used yeah over
the counter of the product and um he
definitely overused the product and any
medication whether it's over the-counter
or prescription if you overuse it and
you don't use it as it's intended like
for example this one you're supposed to
spit out and it looked like he was
swallowing it throughout the episode
that's setting a bad standard for
everyone else because if you're watching
this as I mean yeah as a 10-year-old if
you're watching this you could easily
get tricked into it but even as an adult
you could be like oh next time I eat
spicy things I'm going to do this and
it's a true health risk to do this so I
reached out to hot ones to try and get
them to adjust it somehow but obviously
it was probably too late or whatever it
was I didn't get an answer so I was like
all right I guess I just have to put out
like a PSA about it and explain that
this isn't the right way to use the
medication just so that we didn't start
this trend of oh everyone's copying this
popular YouTube show and then everyone
loses because then YouTube looks like
it's spreading bad information hot ones
Mark Rober so I thought this was like
the middle ground approach of of doing
it yeah how do you think about like once
you do like have the idea okay this
happened on hot ones to make the hook as
interesting or like thinking about like
the first few frames of a short yeah you
know in order to get people to stop
scrolling you have to do something and
I've played around different Avenues uh
in this regard of like here I'm yelling
hey don't don't don't do never do this
and sometimes I find it a little cheesy
to be honest I wish I didn't have to do
that but look at clearly I think this
has like 50 million views or something
so it works sometimes and you need to
use it as appropriate so I've definitely
overused it I've underused it and you're
just trying to straddle this very thin
line that's hard to follow sometimes
yeah um I got another clip can I show
you yep okay um so this is when uh Mr
Beast uh put himself on like he buried
himself for seven seven days um and I
thought you had a really interesting
take on the medical side of it Mr Beast
was buried alive this weekend for 50
hours so let's talk about his movement
air psychology and most notably poop
when blood becomes stagnant in our
bodies it can create a whole host of
problems leading to blood clots or even
pressure ulcers where the skin actually
begins to break down despite his own
ventilation system my one concern came
when they launched fireworks leading to
smoke entering his coffin this could
have led to carbon monoxide poisoning
which could be fatal claustrophobia is
listed on the dsm5 as a specific phobia
yeah so like in in a situation like this
people know what you're going to talk
about so you have to create content that
is something that they won't expect and
that they want to wait for so the the
reason why we went one two and three the
reason why we tease the poop angle is
just to keep that retention so that
people get the full amount of
information and look when you're doing
prank videos or something maybe someone
will say oh you're just trying to get
people to watch longer and you're
hooking them onto this thing I'm trying
to do it so they get the maximal amount
of medical information so that's how
like I think about it myself and um It's
Tricky it's hard to get people to watch
in this day and age with the competition
that exists but it is definitely doable
and it just takes a lot of
experimentation and again pairing the
known with the unknown the unknown is
the medical information the known is
this very viral Mr Beast video of him
being buried alive yeah so so thing
almost like a preview statement of like
we're about to get into this and like
maybe having a punchline like and poop
like well like some of the best speakers
always say like in the beginning of a
speech you should tell people what
they're going to hear tell them and then
tell them tell them again what they
heard yeah so like you have to really
reiterate things multiple times so that
when people leave a presentation a
speech a video they have at least two
takeaways that they can remember cuz if
you just put in a whole lot of info or
you make it too dense I feel like that
becomes problematic although now
nowadays some podcasters are doing it
the other way where they take like
really simple Concepts and they make it
very complicated like Andrew huberman's
a prime example of that on his podcast
where sometimes I take a complex subject
and I try and simplify it he'll take a
simple subject and he'll make it so
complicated teaching you vocabulary
words about the brain and all this I
never expected that content to work but
here we are and it's exploding um can
you talk to me about the other formats
yeah bad doctors uh these days there's
plenty of them especially on social
media um some of these are actually in
real life like this uh here's what
happens when a doctor lies that was a
vice style conversation with an
individual who had really bad Care at a
medical facility and I thought it was
important to highlight what to do in
situations like that so again you're
getting all of this inherent corruption
and interest and you could just listen
to the story on its own but now I'm
pairing it with the known which is my
advice on how to handle it so we're even
adding value to already compelling story
I thought that was pretty cool things
bad doctors say is uh me trying my hand
at uh improv I work with Sam Bowers here
who has a really strong improv
background as my producer and we played
off each other in showing different
styles of bad doctors because in
training doctors I see a lot of bad
habits and I found there's specific
subtypes of doctors like we named one
the keyboard Warrior where they never
look at you and they're just constantly
typing away at the keyboard or the
doctor that's always trying to sell you
some miracle supplement and we found
several subtypes of that and we thought
hey this is great we can show a comedic
version of it but again added value in
addition to the comedic value is the
educational value after each bit so we
always try and Elevate the content to
some degree and we think what's the
impact um and responding to comments I
mean that's your ultimate connection to
your community because people constantly
submit questions that's difficult to
navigate in the health space because you
can't answer individual questions so if
someone says hey I have this condition
what do you think I should do can't
answer that question and not just can't
answer it from like a legal perspective
there's no way I can accurately answer
the question because I would need to
know so much more information that's not
in that uh comment section like
what other medications they're on what
other conditions what are their family
history like what's their physical exam
and obviously I'm not doing that through
a comment section
so great way to talk about general
advice so if someone says hey what
medicine should I take for my diabetes
I'm not going to tell them but I'll talk
about the most commonly prescribed ones
as well as their side effects so found
find a way to still do education with
that type of question any other formats
or things you're seeing on YouTube that
you're experimenting with that are
working or things you tried before
you're kind of letting go well now we're
leaning heavily into the podcast space
especially given the fact that YouTube
is leaning into the podcast space I'm
actually sad that YouTube is not part of
like uh podcast rankings in terms of uh
judging which podcast is successful
because you know Apple has charts
Spotify has charts but then YouTube
That's interestingly missing and I feel
like they're having some growing pains
with it like if you click podcasts on
the left side bar a lot of those things
aren't podcast people are just labeling
it podcast get the extra little exposure
yeah so that's interesting I I really
like podcasting and I never thought it
would be a a format I would find
comfortable to speak freely for two
three hours at a time um but it's been
incredibly valuable and I also didn't
think the audience would stick around as
often because we always talk about
shortening attention spans no people
like we put out a three-hour episode
with my newa inside baseball stuff
people are zoned in for hour hour and a
half on average it's incredible yeah I'm
glad you brought up the podcast cuz
that's another area where I think people
who aren't even in medicine can learn a
ton from what you're doing um I was
looking at your shorts and uh just
finding out how you clip your podcast
and I thought this was fascinating in
your recent interview on your podcast
with lindsy Sterling um you had five
clips from that interview on Tik Tok you
only had three clips from that interview
on YouTube and then I'm like oh okay
there's some overlap no no there's only
one overlap between the two so I'm like
wait what what's going on here and then
looked at the other podcast interviews
I'm like there must be some strategy
here between like how you clip it or
maybe the questions you're asking in the
podcast that I think could help anyone
who's trying to get their podcast on the
ground even if they don't have an
existing audience I agree one last thing
I want to give you my free YouTube
playbooks which include the best tips
and visuals from my interviews from
Casey neistat to Mr Beast just go to
created. news/ Playbook these playbooks
are no fluff no BS just proven tactics
from the best creators and trust me it's
better than most paid courses out there
it's all part of our created newsletter
where every week you'll get a breakdown
of the latest news for creators weekly
roundups of the best videos and
thumbnails and more so you're always a
step ahead that link again is created.
news/ Playbook to get it free in your
inbox or just see the link in the
description all right back to the video
a lot of it right now is experimentation
that's why it's not consistent episode
to episode there are certain podcasts
that I've seen successfully put out all
of their Clips onto let's say Tik Tok
first and allow that algorithm to show
you what's successful and then only post
better ones onto YouTube shorts um so he
tried that for a bit sometimes that
works sometimes it doesn't like it would
be cool when like I I have one episode
with um Dr gundry Who makes claims that
like eating grapes are bad for you yeah
that eating grapes is bad for you and um
I clip that and on every platform no
matter where I post it even if I repost
it it gets millions of views so I don't
know if people are really into defending
grapes but that uh that one does well
across but some of them will take off on
one platform won't do well on another
being that we make medical content we
often times say words that trigger
algorithms to decrease the viewership so
we say words of medical conditions
mental health conditions things that
maybe algorithms don't like or or maybe
downregulating so we run into a lot of
trouble with that yeah perfect example I
can give um I feel like Tommy and it
going to hate me for doing this on a
podcast but I did it last week in public
and he didn't seem to mind it too badly
um he came on my podcast and he talked
about health condition he had and he
needed testicular surgery so on the clip
that we clipped um it was Tommy in it
had testicular surgery and it did
terrible for 70 days I'm talking about
like 300,000 views which is low for us
in a shorts format and then on Day 70 I
just looked at it I said let me let me
change this to he woke up in pain and
removed the word
testicular 14 million views in 2 weeks
wow and that's a 70-day old short W so
it makes it clear to me at least
anecdotally from that one example that
removing one medical word that could be
flagging something can completely change
the trajectory of a video which is good
and bad good in the sense of now I know
to be careful in the future but also bad
because you're constantly just looking
at your old catalog and be like what can
I change that will change the trajectory
of my channel this month cuz getting 14
million off one short imagine you know I
have you know hundreds of shorts if I
could change three of them like that
yeah that could completely change how
well your channel does and it's
essentially free advertising in that way
so it makes you sit there way too long
playing with titles for sure yeah but
but I also think it speaks to language
in your videos because I think every
creator that I interview that um like
isn't a more sophis iated field they
have to distill their words without
dumbing it down sure like when I was
interviewing Marquez brownley he's
starting I mean he's talking about some
of the most technical of topics when it
comes to these products but like looking
at his the grade level of his speaking
and writing it's about fifth or sixth
grade Y how do you think about
distilling like what you're saying so it
appeals to a more mainstream audience
it's funny
because in saying this I almost feel
that it's offensive to the audience to
say it this way and then I came to the
realization that it's not for one reason
the reason I distill it so well and make
it simple and easy to understand is
because that's my understanding like in
order for me to understand how the body
works and how white blood cells work I
have to really simplify it for myself
because I'm not one of these Harvard MIT
Geniuses so I have to make it super
simple for me to understand and when I
do that I can then translate it really
easy to almost about everyone in the
population how do you think about titles
and thumbnails when it comes to taking
dense information and making it much
simpler cuz because I think you have a
higher bar in that you can't clickbait
in the way that like maybe other YouTube
channels can CU you know there's a
medical standard that you have to adhere
to so I pulled a few thumbnails and
titles just wanted to hear your take on
it and how you go through it yeah so not
only do we have the medical standards
but we also don't want people to have
false expectations going into a video uh
as an example of this if I make a clip
off a podcast that's longer than 60
seconds so can't fit into a short I've
thought about making a really fun
thumbnail for it of me in an environment
doing something that's about the topic
discussed in the podcast clip and then I
feel like that just sets up the viewer
into thinking that this is an engaging
video of me in an environment but it's
not it's an interview so you have to
really straddle this line of making it
really interesting really valuable but
still real to what the concept is is and
what they're about to see because what I
found is if you straight too far in the
opposite direction even if in the short
term it works long term it sets an
expectation for the person to say ah I'm
not going to click on that Creator's
video because they don't always give me
what they promis that makes sense yeah
any of these other like titles I I find
like it's like the way you keep it
concise like the like any of their tips
or things uh CU I find early on like
some of your other titles and thumbnails
I I don't want to embarrass you but
they're really bad I pulled some of your
earlier ones to compare to like I think
one of these I made in um in in like
paint or something on my own so it was
really bad and we were experimenting
obviously especially here like at this
point I knew very little about YouTube
in 2017 when we first made these videos
and they have a lot of views now but
that's not how they started for the
first year or so um a lot of struggle
here but obviously they simplified
drastically faces became clearer so that
it's recognizable that it's my face
fonts became more consistent to what the
brand font is uh colors became more
consistent we uh hired a great Motion
Graphics uh Editor to work on our
content on thumbnails as well as within
the videos so if we're ever popping up a
definition we have preset Graphics that
are now brand custom so that people know
oh if it pops up with this sound that's
the definition coming if we get a
sidebar it has logos in the back so we
try and Elevate the production value
without doing too much and bogging the
process down and is there anything on
the podcast side like with your
pre-production or your questions that
you think about that you think has
helped the discovery of that
show I think we sit in a very unique
place where we can talk about a whole
range of things whether it's talking to
an expert and debating them that's hard
to do when you're having the world
leading expert coming on and you're
posing Them Questions challenging them
you have to be very comfortable doing
that that's cool then you can have
athletes come on I have some athletic
background I did the whole influencer
boxing sphere yeah I want to ask about
that yeah yeah yeah yeah so I can talk
about the athletic side of things and
then uh with a celebrity I'm pretty
plugged into the culture as much as I
can be as a practicing physician so we
could also chat about stuff like that
and that opens things up and
double-edged sword in that regard
because because you have a lot of
different topics to talk about so you
have a lot of different audiences that
pick and choose what they want to watch
which leads to less
consistency and as a result sometimes it
makes it difficult to make content
because you never really know who your
audience is like even uh as a prime
example we did a live show last year the
year before and it's an improv show
variety show where we bring in audience
members play fun medical games where
there's fun but a takeaway yeah and when
we're doing the show we're like should
this be for adults should this be for
kids should this be for YouTube insiders
but there's a audience member that
doesn't fit into those buckets at every
show there's someone who doesn't know
you that's coming with a friend there's
adults that won't get the PE whooop
references or the silly references and
then there's kids who don't get the
health care costs in America monologue I
want to do in every show so it's very
difficult to narrow down and and cover
one topic because the audience is so
diverse I mean I I think you've done
really well especially on episodes where
there may be a subject matter which is
not your expertise you bring on a
co-host yeah for sure like I think it
was that episode with Dr sunry G gundry
um you brought in another specialist to
Dr Danielle Bardo yeah because what
happens if I'm a little bit out of my
sphere from the research side of things
I think it's important if we're going to
be having a debate to have someone there
who knows to research cold yeah and
while I can talk about the Practical
implications as a clinician of what I
see in my patients what the guidelines
say and then the rationale as to why we
should or shouldn't follow them is cool
yeah I can't talk about the research of
the little micro molecules what the
recent study has found I just I can't
keep up with all of it so it's great to
have someone when you're doing those
types of deep Dives yeah scientifically
what's the best way for creators to
limit
burnout I think the simplest step that
works for everybody is really hammering
home on what your priorities are and
when I say hammering home I mean
actually putting pen to paper or fingers
to keyboard and writing down what
matters to you because if you're going
to invest time into being a Creator know
that you're going to lose something in
the process you have to sacrifice to be
a Creator because people used to think
oh I could just do this on the side if
you want to do this successfully this is
not a sidekick this is something you
have to truly invest into and that's
both financial and time wise and
emotional wise so for me I used to watch
sports growing up huge Sports fan the
amount of sports I watch since doing
YouTube has drastically Fallen like it's
embarrassingly low how little I watch
sports um I used to do fantasy football
and do the calculations and see who's a
good pick for me now instead of doing
those calculations I'm doing YouTube
analytics so I just transferred for
where my priority was at the time to
what it is now and sometimes that means
cutting out fantasy football sometimes
it means uh moving on from a partner so
it truly depends in his case by case but
starting with that set of priorities is
going to set you up for the best chance
for success and how do you define
burnout like as a doctor because I feel
like people have different definitions
sometimes it's hard to grasp what it is
until yeah I feel like burnout is almost
similar to a medical condition that we
call dymia in healthcare where major
depressive disorder is for a set number
of months you have these symptoms that
are in line with major depressive
disorder versus the St is this
longstanding low level of not
necessarily depression but
sadness and when you have that for a
long period of time and you're starting
to
lose joy in what you once enjoyed doing
uh you once enjoyed do doing videos now
you really despise the process but
you're not in a place where you're
having major dysfunction like you would
a major depressive disorder where you
can't keep friendships alive you can't
perform at work it's not that to that
degree it's a lower level
but it's for a longer period of time
that chronicity of it that's what I
think leads to burnout and burnout means
that you're just not capable of
gathering the amount of value from the
content you were making or the creative
process and I think when that goes on
for a long period of time you really
need to re-evaluate why that's happening
and I do that all the time because I
burn out in those ways all the time yeah
I was going to ask if you've experienced
that because you managed so much like
every time I see videos are come it's
like you're so upbeat like
but well you got to be up beat to to you
know keep people keep people's attention
to keep folks happy in general and that
doesn't mean I'm always upbeat I'm
definitely sad I'm definitely mad in
fact I remember when uh I was a resident
we would interview future Med Stu future
residents that were Med students and
they would oftentimes ask me how can I
do better in interviews what what can I
do better to prepare and the advice is
always like be normal and to me would
normal meant was experience all the
emotions if someone says something
offensive it's appropriate to get angry
if someone uh you have experienc a loss
in your family and you're sad be sad
don't pathologize sadness as a form of
mental illness there's times where
you're supposed to be sad and when
you're happy be happy when you want to
be helpful be helpful and just like
experience the range of emotions and
there's times where during burnout you
get stuck in one part of that emotional
I guess pie C if you will and um when
that happens you have to take a look and
figure out and work backwards and see
how you got there what's happening where
are you spending too much time where are
you not spending enough time and for me
I have this built-in Safety Net in that
I'm always doing something different so
you're never getting bored but at the
same time there's a major cost to the
constant switching of Gears so you know
one second I'm filming a video then a
patient calls in the middle of it your
brain has to shift gears then I'm going
back to making the video one of my dogs
starts acting up and is a distraction my
gears are shifting again and you could
only shift gears so often before you
need to say okay I need to take a break
CU my gears are overheating it's
probably a terrible mechanical analogy
but that's uh that's how I think about
it and why my Situation's a little
different where some people can get
bored with the process I'm never bored
I'm more so worn out with the process I
mean that contact switching must be
draining do you ever like block off time
or can you because you have patients
like reaching out I talked to creators
who are like yeah I'm going to have
manager versus maker days maker days I'm
going to film the other days I'm going
to manage and work with it like I don't
have that and uh that's my biggest
weakness in all of this uh doctors are
oftentimes the biggest Hypocrites so
we'll give good health advice but
doesn't mean we always follow it and in
this situation my balance is completely
off I should be taking more time away
from certain scenarios but I'm one of
those people that when I see an
opportunity I just can't turn it down I
want to keep pressing that pedal and
going forward especially because I see
so much value from this not just for me
but for the greater good that I'm like
you have to keep going you have to keep
going and this will never be around as
often as it is but the reality is if
it's taking such a toll where you're
becoming less effective in your
abilities taking a break can actually
yield better outcomes and I often times
have to remind myself of that and that
could mean taking a day for just doing
something fun it could mean taking the
evening to playing video games and not
answering emails so there's a wide
variety of coping strategies people are
going to have there do you have systems
in place to help with that too because
when you said earlier that you sometimes
film three to four episodes a day I'm
like oh that gives you Runway to then
have that footage with your team being
edited like do you have other things in
place where it's like the content no
it's it's a disaster I mean the fact
where we are now is already better that
were filmed up a week or two in advance
for so long for probably three or four
years we were shooting on Monday
publishing on Wednesday wow and we've
been publishing Wednesday and Sunday in
addition to like shorts every now and
then an additional video every now and
then for the last seven years without
missing dates so I've been really
consistent with that and saying like we
need to publish two videos a week and we
were under the gun a lot and if I was to
give advice to new
creators the advice I would give is if
you're looking to make content and
you're trying to figure out how often
you should be posting posting what you
should factor in is two things you
should post as often as you can that
your mental health and your quality
allows so if you're rushing to put out a
video but sacrificing the quality you
should wait to publish it it doesn't
matter about the time that you're
posting it if your mental health is
suffering for a long period of time
shortly your body can adjust but long
long term that's just so toxic to your
system to your creativity to your health
that it's not worth and it won't be
sustainable
so it's the quality and the mental
health should be your rate limiting
steps as to how often you publish yeah
that's such a good checklist that every
Creator should ask themselves um I got
to ask about the boxing okay because
another hypocritical thing that I do
like brain damage I probably shouldn't
be doing that but so that's why I asked
because I watched this video where
you're like reacting to WWE like
injuries obviously you didn't do WWE but
you're taking some well WWE you're
probably having less impact on your
brain than you are when you're actually
figh
yeah yeah um well I mean I I was
watching your fights and like you were
taking some hits you were delivering
some too um why did you decide to do
that and H how did you even manage that
with your workload yeah that was that
was really tough scheduling wise because
for a period of a year and a half two
years I basically woke up boxed in the
morning for 90 minutes worked all day
and then either ran or strength trained
six days a week so two days six days a
week
for almost two years and that's a lot
with everything else going on I remember
my team would come in in the morning at
9:00 A.M ready to film and I've already
worked out i' I'm already exhausted I
have a black eye or something else is
going on from sparring so that was
really hard
but my whole thing with health is it's
not about trying to live to a perfect
standard or to the healthiest standard
to the most optimal yeah we'd like that
but what for me Healthcare is about
making sure people understand and are
consciously making
choices that they have enough
information to go off on so if I'm
recommending a test if I'm recommending
a treatment I want the patient to know
why it is that they're doing it and for
me I'm acutely aware of the risks of
boxing and I've accepted those risks and
I want to continue boxing let's say so
someone might want to jump out of a
plane with a parachute they are aware of
the risks and as long as they're aware
of the risks I guess you could judge
them as a person but I'll never judge
them as a doctor so that that's been My
Philosophy from day one and I've had a
unique uh Journey with boxing in that uh
when I was in med school I unfortunately
lost my mom to cancer and that's been a
big part of my journey it's uh actually
right here on uh one of the
thumbnails and something that got me out
of like the four-month funk where I just
wasn't taking good care of my health was
taking a Groupon Boxing class and I fell
in love with boxing then I said oh this
is like really good for my health it
took me out of my comfort zone
challenged myself in a fun way and I
always L the sport as a result when
influencers started doing it I'm like oh
I got to do this now I gotta and again
me thinking is always like what's the
added value well I'll do this I'll get a
paycheck and I just give it to charity
so the last fight that I had on Showtime
pay-per-view which I mean talk about a
fantasy camp dream for a kid like I'm
not as on the level of the Jake Paul's
or Logan Paul's so to be able to fight
on Showtime pay-per-view like I remember
the week before I fought or two weeks
before I fought there was another
pay-per-view match and in the middle of
it they go coming up next week and it's
my freaking face there I'm like this
doesn't make sense like this should not
be allowed but I said I'm going to make
the most of that opportunity so I
trained really hard and we able to give
the entire paycheck over $100,000 to the
Boys and Girls Club here in Harlem in
New York city so it was totally awesome
to be able to do that wow were you going
into that and being like hey I'm going
to like make a medical video about this
or like they or like you're like there
was definitely content around it there
was definitely valuable content and like
I said to the kids that are starting up
that want to be YouTubers I had an
experience to share you know I'm a
doctor who treats athletes but sometimes
couldn't relate to them as well right
when they would be injured and they
would want to push on now I could now I
could say here's the experimental thing
that I tried on my elbow here's how it
went wrong and we created a lot of great
content as a result and it was a fun
journey and I don't think it's over yet
I think it's just hard to sometimes FInd
matches when you're 6'3 200 plus pounds
but yeah I I also think it's really
interesting as you think about like
Educators versus entertainers when it
comes to creators you don't always have
to go to school to have an educational
experience you could be the guinea pig
and put yourself into something like you
did with life experience and then
reflect on that and then break it down
um any final like studies like like
things that Creator should like keep in
mind like Diet like tip like anything
like I find being a Creator you throw so
many things by the wayside when you go
into I I know I personally have um any
other like thoughts or like scientific
studies you feel like we should pay more
attention to I think the pendulum has
taken a few swings I think initially it
started off with this hardcore rise and
grind culture 3:00 a.m. Club put out as
much content as you can until you no
longer can and that was unhealthy and
now it's swung to the let me not
challenge myself as as much let me
protect my mental health and that was
good because it was unhealthy to begin
with and we need to be cognizant of our
mental health but now it's going into a
little bit of that safety zone and we
need to be cognizant that we don't get
to safety and we continue to experiment
we continue to take risks because the
number one way a child learns and I
specifically say child because it's the
time in our lives where our brain is
most Adept at learning it's most excited
to learn ready to
learn the most that child learns is from
taking risk from doing something bad
being corrected from taking a jump and
falling from tasting a food and not
liking it so the more we get into this
culture of too much safety the less
we're willing to experiment the less
we'll push our boundaries the less will
be successful so we have to constantly
be aware of that pendulum of not getting
into the toxic chronic space but also
into that fearful we need to not take
risks as well well it's been amazing
seeing you take risks and uh man it's
just so inspiring to sit down with you
thanks for taking time you appreciate it
uh thank you for the opportunity because
it's nice to be able to talk about
YouTube for once I feel like that's
always looked by the wayside when folks
bring me on a show they say let's talk
about medicine and I love talking about
medicine but YouTube is where I started
so much of my passion is there and I'm
really grateful for the app of course
man I'm grateful you came on thank you
thank you amazing